Custom Dimensions and Metrics

Custom dimensions are similar to default dimensions except that you define what they are and their value. This let’s you collect data that’s customized specifically for your business.

You learned about dimensions and metrics in Google Analytics for Beginners. But you also can create your own dimensions and metrics in Analytics called “Custom Dimensions” and “Custom Metrics.” Custom Dimensions help you define a group of metric data that’s specific to your business and then apply that as a dimension across your reports.

Custom Dimensions can be used as a secondary dimension in standard reports, a primary dimension in a Custom Report, or as a segment. We’ll discuss Custom Reports and segments later in the course. 
“Custom Metrics” can be collected for any standard dimension or Custom Dimension that can’t be measured by any predefined metric in Google Analytics. 
You can also upload your own data to Google Analytics including hit data, extended data that is stored in a Custom Dimension or Custom Metric, and Summary data that lets you sum up any uploaded metrics. Typically, this information is exported from an offline business tool like a content management system or customer relationship management system into text files. 

more info:
https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/2709828?hl=en
https://analytics.google.com/analytics/academy/course/7/unit/2/lesson/3

Custom dimensions are similar to default dimensions except that you define what they are and their value. This let’s you collect data that’s customized specifically for your business.

How to set up custom paramters
How to set up Custom Metrics
Custom Metrics let you collect metrics in Google Analytics that are specific to your business. This can be the number of ads that loaded on a page, the bandwidth that the page consumed when it loaded, or the total number of brand pageviews that each of your marketing channels leads to.

Similar to Custom Dimensions, you collect Custom Metric data using JavaScript that’s implemented on a page. When a user lands on that page or performs a specific action, the Custom Metric will be sent as an additional parameter attached to the hit.



For example, the Google Merchandise Store is in a big push to sell Android-branded merchandise and wants to know which marketing channels are contributing to Android merchandise pageviews. They can include tracking code on Android merchandise pages that fires with each pageview hit and increments a Custom Metric in Google Analytics.

To set up a Custom Metric, go into Admin. Select the Property in which you want the metric applied. Then click “Custom Definitions” and “Custom Metrics.” Then click “New Custom Metric.”.

You first have to name the Custom Metric. Then you have to define its scope. This is based on how this metric data will be generated. Unlike dimensions, Custom Metrics can only have a scope of “hit,” or “product.”
